
So the Indians completed a trade with the Cubs. The Indians get Mark Derosa to replace Casey Blake (and to keep him away from the Twins, who were also interested). The Cubs get three no-name pitching "prospects" in return; one who split time in AA and AAA and might make the bullpen this year, and two in Low-A ball.

Obviously, now all the Twins fans are furious. They're pissed at Bill Smith and the rest of the front office for sitting on their hands and not making a deal that, in the minds of these fans, would DEFINITELY have helped the team. With Derosa manning third base, these fans say, the Twins are an unstoppable juggernaut who will win 110 games and dominate all the way to the World Series! Without him, this team is nothing but a ragtag group of nobodies who will be proud of their inevitable fourth place finish. Clearly, Mark Derosa is the key, the lynch pin, the final ingredient! Allowing him to pass through our fingers is an unforgivable mistake; especially since he has gone to the Cleveland Indians, who will now be the favorite in the AL Central since they've replaced Casey Blake with Mark Derosa.

Casey Blake, 2008: .274/.345/.463, 21 HR, 81 RBI
Mark Derosa, 2008: .285/.376/.481, 21 HR, 87 RBI
Mark Derosa, Career 162 game average: .279/.348/.422, 13 HR, 64 RBI (ie, that's closer to what we'd get from him given the fact that Wrigley is a great hitter's park and he had a career year)

Obviously, Derosa is going to put the Indians over the top. After all, he's so much better than Blake was! And obviously he's all the Twins needed to get to the World Series, given that those career averages are SO much better than what we can possibly hope to get from a Buscher/Harris platoon. The sky is falling, for Christ's sake, and we need to do some saber-rattling to let the front office know how badly they've blown this! Obviously.

But the problem here is not with the Twins' front office. It's not some reputation that we're not willing to give up anything good. It's much worse than that -- something the Twins can't do anything about.

The Twins are renowned around baseball for getting the better side of trades. People point to our questionable acquisition of Johan Santana, and they point to the Nathan/Liriano/Bonser Heist, and they think "Watch out for those Twins, they'll take everything you've got and leave you holding the bag!" So they do everything they can to make sure we don't screw them.

Thus, when the Rays were trying to unload their talented but immature corner outfielders last year, they demanded an ace pitcher and a starting shortstop and a talented minor league reliever (in fact demanding that we upgrade the deal from Rincon) from us to get one of them. The other went to the Nationals for a PTBNL.

Last offseason, anyone we tried to talk to demanded Garza+Baker+Slowey in any trade, for whichever of their players we wanted. Obviously, Smith didn't let that happen.

This year, the Rockies want Slowey+Span for Atkins. The Cubs wanted Slowey+Span for Derosa. The Mariners want Slowey+Span+Baker+prospects for Beltre. Everyone we talk to demands at least Slowey and Span for whatever one year rental they decide their willing to gift us.

Bill Smith wisely refuses all these "deals," saying "We'll give you less than that. You're not getting that much for what you're giving us." And the other teams let us walk away, knowing that if they want lesser prospects they can go elsewhere. And so they do -- they drop from a top notch starter straight down to a PTBNL elsewhere. They drop from Slowey+Span straight down to some non-prospect minor leaguers from our division rival.

That's not Smith's fault. And he shouldn't have had to try to "outbid" the Indians; people are somehow recommending that Smith erred by failing to offer Swarzak and Humber and Slama and Manship. The problem with that thinking is that each one of those guys is much more valuable than anyone the Indians gave up. The Twins should have been going even lower down, but the Cubs weren't willing to go there with the Twins. (And another thing for those who think the Indians gave up nothing -- one of their Low-A pitchers threw 100 strikeouts in 64 innings this year. That's pretty solid.)

Others accuse Smith of being unwilling to give up any of our starters to improve the team, and that this is a foolish mistake. They go further and claim that this trade indicates that the Cubs were willing to take a package consisting of nothing but minor leaguers, and therefore Smith failed to upgrade the 2009 team at the expense of future years. These fans fail to realize two things. First, the deal was not available to the Twins -- when the Cubs were talking to the Twins, they were willing to accept nothing less than a major league starter and a major league starter; they dropped their demands after ending discussions with the Twins and realizing that the market for Derosa is not, in fact, booming and that the Twins were not trying to rob them. Second, sacrificing a big part of the future by trading Swarzak/Slama/Manship is unwise -- these are the guys who will stock our rotation in 2011. A farm system stocked with pitching prospects is the holy grail of a baseball organization, and the Twins have it; it would be moronic at best to sacrifice that for a one year rental of an average player whose stats in his age 32 season were inflated by his home stadium.

I'm a fan for the long term. I'm excited to see Swarzak and Manship develop as players and get up to the majors in the next few years. Likewise, the Twins are planning for the long term. They know the current crop of starters may not remain healthy and effective indefinitely. They also know that if they DO remain healthy and effective, then we won't be able to afford them any more, which is why we need new starters coming in to replace them and keep up our competitiveness.

The league is full of franchises who thought it'd be a good idea to mortgage their future for a shot at glory this year. Almost all of them failed that year, and for years after that are derelict franchises with an empty farm system and dead weight on their overpaid roster and a losing record. Twins fans should be thrilled that we're not in that position, and that the front office is doing everything in their power to make sure we don't get there.

And if that means they don't buy high on aging players while selling low on promising young talent, then fine. If it means that wintertime is usually boring and we have to watch as other teams shuffle the deckchairs in an attempt to make their fans think they're doing something, then fine. We'll see you when pitchers and catchers report; we have the best of those.

So just relax. The Twins are doing what they should do -- not panic. As Twins fans, we should follow their lead. Don't panic.

